okay don't let your phone wake up every
time you pick it up
automatically waking up may save time
but it drains the battery
because any accidental upward motion
triggers this function
you can turn it off in settings under
raise to wake
shorten the auto lock time as much as
you can the sooner your screen turns off
when you're not using the phone
the less energy it's eating you can find
this under display
and brightness yeah it's cool
but you can live without that neat
parallax feature that makes apps and
alerts move around
when you tilt your phone it's found
under accessibility and motion
also a good old static wallpaper eats
way less battery than a dynamic one if
you don't want to turn off the motion
effects for good though
you can always activate low power mode
from time to time
this will deactivate dynamic wallpaper
and perspective zoom
automatically put your siri to sleep
try a lullaby if that doesn't work then
tap
settings then siri and search and turn
off listen
for hey siri your phone will no longer
be listening and waiting for you to say
those magical words
which will save your battery you can
reactivate siri by pressing the home or
slide button
depending on your iphone model when your
icloud photos feature is turned on
every image you take is sent to an
online storage
it's handy and safe but each transfer
eats up a good portion of priceless
battery
you can disable it in icloud photos make
sure your airdrop feature is off unless
you need to send multiple files to
another iphone
whenever this feature is on it keeps
searching for other devices nearby
even when you don't want it to swipe up
from the screen bottom
and deactivate it in the control center
don't let your apps refresh in the
background if you absolutely need
some of them to be up to date all the
time let them be
but otherwise you can scroll through
your list of apps and toggle them
off under background app refresh unless
it's an
urgent work email you should be fine
with your phone only
fetching your mail every 30 minutes
hourly or even using manual checks
you can choose your time under accounts
and passwords
and fetch new data the longer the
interval you choose
the more battery you'll save watch out
for sneaky apps that use
bluetooth it's okay for some accessories
like
ipods and apple watches to connect your
phone via bluetooth
but retail stores often use it to know
your location
and offer you stuff you may not want
using your phone as a hotspot is one of
the most
massive battery drainers when you
absolutely have to share your mobile
internet with someone else
at least do it right don't let your
phone overheat
and put it on a flat dry surface if
you're traveling by train that's going
through a lot of tunnels
or enjoying the countryside with no
coverage switch to airplane mode
otherwise your phone will use a ton of
battery hunting for cell signals between
towers leave your apps running in the
background instead of closing them
this may seem backwards but this keeps
them in a ready to relaunch state
and you can open them again without
using a ton of power
when you force quit an app it has to be
cleared from the ram
and that uses you guessed it a lot of
battery
unless you really want to help apple
with your diagnostic data
tell your phone not to send it you can
do this under privacy
then analytics and improvements your
iphone will no longer waste battery by
updating and transferring data to the
developers
don't let your apps track you you'll see
a lot of apps that use your location
by always tracking you which is a real
battery drainer
unless it's a mapping app switch your
apps to never
or ask next time under location services
if you're on team fitness the sensor
feature that counts your steps
and tracks other health activities is
great but
monitoring it all the time is a battery
drain
you can turn the motion sensor off under
motion and fitness
but here's something to keep in mind
even if you don't track your steps
the motion sensor also powers the iphone
face down feature
which means whenever your iphone screen
is face down
it doesn't light up when the new
notification appears
so leaving motion sensor on means it
might save more battery than it drains
if you're someone who gets a lot of
notifications
monitor your battery health if you see
its capacity is less than eighty percent
under the battery health setting
your battery is old and it's a good idea
to replace it
to keep your battery healthier for
longer you can try optimized battery
charging
it studies your charging habits and
controls the process
for example if you leave the phone
charging overnight
it'll pause at 80 percent and only
finish charging once you're about to
wake up
the music equalizer adapts bass and
treble settings
and makes your favorite tunes sound
better but
because it works continuously it uses
tons of power
you can temporarily deactivate in
settings under music
be prepared though music might sound
slightly different to you
devices like iphone x and newer ones
have an
oled display that lets you turn on dark
mode
this boosts the battery by a lot and you
can find it under display in brightness
or the control center you can even
choose to activate it at sunset or
sunrise automatically
choose a dark wallpaper if you have an
oled screen
it will not waste power on lighting up
black pixels
so the more dark areas on the screen the
less battery your wallpaper will use
app suggestions are based on your
location and tracking
which means using battery you can remove
these siri app suggestions
in the notification center turn off
vibration
oh thanks even when your phone is in
silent mode
the little motor inside consumes tons of
energy to make that vibration happen
your phone is just like most humans it
doesn't like extreme temperatures
don't leave it on a car seat under the
sun and don't use it when it's hotter
than 95 degrees
extreme cold isn't much better your
power level may drop and then go back to
normal as it warms up
but this isn't healthy for the battery
when all else fails
quit no actually you can try restoring
your iphone to the way it was when it
was new
you can do this under settings and erase
all content and settings
this is an extreme measure yes but it
can help your battery
just don't forget to backup your data
with itunes or icloud
and save it to a dropbox before you do
this step
and that's it for today's iphoney tips